P5: "2nd time around, messages were more to the point, more direct. Easier to interpret more quickly"...

P5: "I think I was more confident the second time"

P1: "I feel like I improved, the first time I felt like I was talking like I would normally talk...and they kept on saying 'I don't understand', so I was like, should I just say the same question but move the words around?"

P2: you're landing?/you're landing.





you are landing

Hard to abbreviate "P2: I would normally say 'mon' for Monday, but then it's weird to say Mon"

P2 "instead of using abbreviations or shortenings I just took out full words"

P3 "Longer sentences were harder for me to get in one go...I almost forgot I could type it out... It's harder to recollect longer sentences bc by the time you get to the end of the sentence you forget"

"I just wrote down words that I understood and went back [to clarify]".

P2 "this works best when you're just trying to get information from the other person."

P2 "It's content heavy... You get rid of functional elements"

P1 "You already have a real conversation happening in some other context where you're preferrably in a better mode of communication with the other person and this is like a confirmation check. We're still on for tonight... Something where you just want the person to confirm yes/no, simple nouns"

P3 thinks rec shorter words "if I ask a Q"

N: More about questions and answers, less emotional conversations.

P1 "What do you want to do? (laughs) Grocery list is a lot more straightforward"

P3: "Instead of individual phonemes if you had conjucation" [morphemes or syllables based rendering]

P1: "IT's a good setup from a theoretical linguistics perspective but linguistics isn't necessary...based off how people learn about stuff." The average english speaker doesn't have a lot of phonological awareness so the encoding may not be super helpful. Manner of articulation perhaps more helpful, but not as much.

P3: "This time of communication would suit some languages better than others" accent diversity...
"The way this communication medium is aimed, in terms of phonemes, I can relate this to Hindi or Sanskrit,...because they are arranged in that way..." orthography is taught based off articulatory phonetics. Hindi has 1:1 mapping
